---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/garden/digital-garden/","tags":["🌱seedling"],"noteIcon":"1","created":"2024-04-05T22:16:35.000-05:00","updated":"2024-04-13T18:55:32.000-05:00"}
---

I stumbled onto [the idea of the digital garden](https://obsidian.rocks/creating-a-digital-garden-in-obsidian/) while trying to answer a question about Obsidian. It immediately made me think of the [[pre-blog web\|pre-blog web]] in a way that sparked my curiosity and imagination. Thinking on it further, I was reminded of [[garden/commonplace books\|commonplace books]], [Twine games](https://nonmodernist.com/next-lunar-baedeker/), and self-replicating web art projects like https://trashrobot.org/. I love [[gardens\|gardens]]. I wanted to try it out.
### Why a "digital garden"?
When I was a young teen, I was really interested in neopagan worldviews like Wicca. (Yes, I watched *The Craft* a lot in this era.) This was pre-social media, pre-Web 2.0, even pre-blogging. My mom worked for a major telecom company, so we had free internet, and I loved to spend hours navigating the web as it existed then, researching neopaganism and marveling at the various ways that the web creators of the era used [[garden/metaphors\|metaphors]] to help users navigate their sites. There was a poetry and a freedom to user interface design—rather than using "the blog" as their organizing strategy, these creators built [[labyrinths\|labyrinths]] and [[garden/villages\|villages]] and, yes, [[gardens\|gardens]] of deeply interlinked evergreen content. I lost interest in neopaganism after a while, but I've never lost my fondness for that time on the web. 

I miss when we treated more websites a little like text adventure games, when [[garden/When we went to see the solar eclipse\|discovery]] was part of the joy of using the internet, when designers and creators didn't default to what everyone else did but embraced experimentation. In this space, I want to bring that feeling back, at least for myself if not for others. 

I also appreciate the garden metaphor because I spend a lot of time thinking about how computers help or hinder our ability to be in relationship with the ecosystems around us. In 2023, I developed a multimedia authoring course on apps and ebooks themed around [[garden/Shadow Libraries and Solarpunk Futures\|Shadow Libraries and Solarpunk Futures]], where one of the goals was to get students doing this kind of thinking about the relationship between digital [[garden/Technology\|Technology]] and "nature." I focused on [[garden/solarpunk\|solarpunk]] because I wanted us to find [[hope\|hope]] for the future. For me, that hope is in the possibility that we can reshape how we think about digital tech to work with, and not against, the natural world.